<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIV: Hay-Fever</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Hay-Fever</p>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="chapter-14-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>After that one moment of introspection, Anthony headed his car for Fleet Street. At twenty-five minutes past eleven he burst into the room of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">The Owl</i>‚Äôs editor.</p>
				<p>The editor and his secretary were rather close together. The shining golden hair of the secretary was noticeably disordered.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúEr‚ÅÝ‚Äîhallo!‚Äù said Hastings.</p>
				<p>Anthony said: ‚ÄúGet hold of private ‚Äôtec called Pellet; 4, Grogan‚Äôs Court. Find out what he knows about the ownership of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">The Searchlight</i>, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">The <abbr>St.</abbr>¬ÝStephen‚Äôs Gazette</i>, and <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Vox Populi</i>. He was commissioned for same thing some time ago by <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J.</abbr> Masterson. Never mind how much he costs. I‚Äôll pay. If Pellet doesn‚Äôt know anything, find out yourself. In any case give me the answer as soon as is damn well possible. Got that? Right. ‚ÄôNight. ‚ÄôNight, Miss Warren.‚Äù The door banged behind him.</p>
				<p>Margaret Warren snatched some papers from her table and followed. She caught him in the entrance hall.</p>
				<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGethryn!‚Äù she said, breathless. ‚ÄúHere‚Äôs the report‚ÅÝ‚Äîasked‚ÅÝ‚Äîfor‚ÅÝ‚Äîinquest.‚ÅÝ‚ÄîJust finished‚ÅÝ‚Äîtyped. You may‚ÅÝ‚Äîwant it.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony raised his hat. ‚ÄúMiss Warren, you‚Äôre wonderful.‚Äù He took the papers from her hand. ‚ÄúMany thanks. Hope I don‚Äôt seem rude. Very busy. Good night‚ÅÝ‚Äîand good luck.‚Äù He shook her hand and was gone.</p>
				<p>Slowly, Margaret went back to her editor. He was found pacing the room, scratching his head in bewilderment.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes, darling, he was a bit strange, wasn‚Äôt he?‚Äù Margaret said.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe was.‚Äù Hastings spoke with conviction. ‚ÄúI‚Äôve known that man for fifteen years and I‚Äôve never seen him all hot and bothered like that before. He‚Äôs usually calmest when he‚Äôs got most to do.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Margaret patted his cheek. ‚ÄúBut, you silly baby, he wasn‚Äôt like that because of the work he was doing. It was something much, much more important than that‚ÅÝ‚Äîor I‚Äôm a Dutchman!‚Äù</p>
				<p>Hastings was alarmed. ‚ÄúNot that! Anything but that! What was it, then?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúA woman, of course. <em>The</em> woman! Heaven, am I tied to an idiot?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúJust you wait, wench, until I‚Äôve seen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPellet!‚Äù said Hastings.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-14-2" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>From Fleet Street, Anthony drove straight to the Regency, over whose great frontage flaring placards and violently winking electric signs announced that the great, the incomparable Vanda was gracing with her art this mecca of vaudeville. As he reached it the audience were streaming out from its great glass doors.</p>
				<p>He anticipated difficulty, and approached the stage-door keeper with a five-pound note and broken English. He was, it seemed, Prince Nicolas Something-or-the-other-vitch. He was oh! so great a friend of the great, the incomparable Vanda‚ÅÝ‚Äîeven a relation. He <em>must</em>, it was of an imperativeness, see her. Further, the good keeper of the door really must accept this so little piece of paper.</p>
				<p>The good keeper did; then proceeded laboriously to explain that the Vanda was not in the theatre. Hadn‚Äôt been there at all that day. <em>And</em> there ‚Äôadn‚Äôt been half a row about it, neither! She had wired to say she couldn‚Äôt appear. Why? Gawd perhaps knew; certainly nobody else did. When would she reappear? The keeper of the door reely couldn‚Äôt say. P‚Äôr‚Äôaps to-morrer. P‚Äôr‚Äôaps never. Good night to <em>you</em>, sir.</p>
				<p>Anthony went to his flat, surprised his man, and ordered a drink, a bath, fresh clothing, a drink, and supper.</p>
				<p>At the meal, his hunger surprised him. Then he remembered that since the lightest of lunches he had eaten nothing. Having made up the deficiency, he lit a cigar, sat in a chair by the open window and read through, not once but many times, the typed report of the inquest.</p>
				<p>Somewhere a clock struck two. Anthony put down the report, clasped his head with his hands, and plunged into thought. Presently he found his mind to be wandering, strictly against orders‚ÅÝ‚Äîwandering in a direction forbidden. He swore, got to his feet, and crossed to the writing-table. At this he employed himself with pen and paper for more than an hour.</p>
				<p>At last he put down his pen and read through what he had written. The clock struck four. He finished his reading, said: ‚ÄúH‚Äômm! Those blasted gaps!‚Äù and went to bed.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-14-3" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>He had barely two hours‚Äô sleep, for by a quarter past six he was breaking his fast. At twenty minutes past seven he was driving his car slowly through London.</p>
				<p>This morning he took the journey to Marling slowly: the pointer of his speedometer touched eighteen as he left the outskirts of town, and remained there. For Anthony was thinking.</p>
				<p>For the first third of the journey his thoughts were incoherently redundant. They were of a certain scene in which <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. R.</abbr> Gethryn had lost his temper; had behaved, in short, abominably, and this to the one person in the world for whose opinion he cared.</p>
				<p>It cost him an effort greater than might be supposed to wrench his thoughts out of this gloomy train, but at last he succeeded.</p>
				<p>This puzzle of his‚ÅÝ‚Äîsome of it fitted now, only there were several idiotic pieces which, unfitted, made nonsense of the rest. He flogged his unwilling brain for the rest of the journey.</p>
				<p>He backed the Mercedes into the garage of the Bear and Key at twenty-five minutes to ten. By five minutes to the hour he was walking with his long, lazy stride up the winding drive of Abbotshall.</p>
				<p>Drawing near the house he saw that the great oaken door stood open, letting a shaft of hot, clean, morning sunlight paint a golden track across the polished floor of the wide hall. He entered, flung his hat on to a chair, and turned in the direction of the stairs.</p>
				<p>He had set foot upon the third step when from behind and below him came a noise‚ÅÝ‚Äîa rasping roar of a noise. To his overtired brain and overheated imagination it seemed a noise evil and inhuman. He swung round. The hall was as he had left it, empty of all save furniture. He descended the three steps; stood looking about him; then walked towards the front door. Before he could reach it, the noise came again, louder this time. The same roaring, rasping sound. But this time it had for a tail a snuffling choke which came, obviously, from the throat of a man.</p>
				<p>Anthony laughed at himself. Noiselessly, he retraced his steps, passed the foot of the stairs, and halted outside the door opposite that of the study. It stood ajar, giving him a glimpse of the little room which he remembered as being the lair of the butler.</p>
				<p>Anthony waited. In a moment came the roar again, now recognisable as half-cough, half-sneeze. Anthony pushed the door wide. Facing it, huddled in a chair, was the butler. His gray head was on a level with his knees. In one claw of a hand he clutched a bandana handkerchief with which he dabbed every now and then at his streaming eyes.</p>
				<p>Anthony stood unmoving in the doorway. Presently, another spasm shook the old man.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBad cold, that,‚Äù Anthony said loudly.</p>
				<p>There was no answer. The coughing gasps went on; gradually grew less frequent. The thin shoulders ceased to shake.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBad cold, that,‚Äù said Anthony again.</p>
				<p>This time he got an effect. Poole leapt to his feet, fumbling hurriedly to hide in a tail pocket the capacious handkerchief.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYour pardon, sir!‚Äù he gasped. ‚ÄúDid you want me, sir?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI only remarked that yours was a bad cold.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThank you, sir. Thank you. Not that it‚Äôs a cold, sir, exactly. It‚Äôs this hay-fever. And very troublesome it is, sir, for an old fellow like me!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMust be.‚Äù Anthony was sympathetic. ‚ÄúD‚Äôyou have these attacks many times a day?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI used to, sir. But this summer it does seem to be improving, sir. Only takes me every now and then, as you might say.‚Äù The old man‚Äôs voice showed gratitude for this concern about his ailment.</p>
				<p>But Anthony‚Äôs interest in hay-fever was not yet abated. ‚ÄúThis the first bad fit you‚Äôve had for some time?‚Äù he asked.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes, sir. Quite a while since I was so bad, sir. It didn‚Äôt trouble me at all yesterday, sir.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony drew nearer. ‚ÄúD‚Äôyou happen to remember,‚Äù he said slowly, ‚Äúwhether you‚ÅÝ‚Äîer‚ÅÝ‚Äîsneezed like that at all on the evening your master was killed?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Poole exhibited agitation. ‚ÄúWhether I‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe master‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù the thin hands twisted about each other. ‚ÄúForgive me, sir‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI can‚Äôt remember, sir. I‚Äôm a foolish old fellow‚ÅÝ‚Äîand any mention of‚ÅÝ‚Äîof that terrible night sort of seems to‚ÅÝ‚Äîto upset me, sir.‚Äù He passed a hand across his forehead. ‚ÄúNo, sir, I really can‚Äôt remember. I‚Äôm an old man, sir. My memory‚Äôs not what it was. Not what it was‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>But Anthony was listening no longer. He was, in fact, no longer there to listen. He had suddenly turned about and sprung into the hall. As <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPoole said later in the servants‚Äô hall: ‚ÄúI‚Äôd never of believed such a lazy-looking gentleman could of moved so quick. Like the leap of a cat, it was!‚Äù</p>
				<p>Had he followed into the hall, he would have had more matter for gossip. For by the door of the verandah Anthony stood clutching, none too gently, the skinny shoulder of Robert Belford‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe manservant he had christened ‚ÄúFerret-face.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúA word in your pointed ear, my friend,‚Äù he said, and tightened his grip. ‚ÄúNow where shall we chat? The garden?‚Äù He pulled his trembling captive, whose face was a dirty gray with fear, out through the verandah, and on to the terrace.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúSuppose,‚Äù Anthony said, dropping his hand, ‚Äúsuppose you tell me why in hell you listen to my conversations with other people.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI wasn‚Äôt listening.‚Äù The man‚Äôs voice was sullen, yet at the same time shrill with fear.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhy take the trouble?‚Äù Anthony asked plaintively. ‚ÄúBesides, it‚Äôs wicked to tell stories, Belford. Wicked! Unhappy is the burden of a fib. We will, I think, get farther from our fellows and you shall tell me all about everything. I‚Äôve been watching you, you know.‚Äù</p>
				<p>With these last words, true but intentionally misleading, a black shadow of hopelessness seemed to fall upon the prisoner.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAll right,‚Äù he mumbled wearily, and followed meekly, but with dragging feet, while his captor led the way down the steps and across the lawn and into the little copse which faced the eastern end of the house.</p>
				<p>As he walked, Anthony thought hard. He was something more than mystified. What in heaven, earth or hell was this little person going to tell him? Another old boot turning into a salmon, what? Father Gethryn, confessor! Well, every little helps.</p>
				<p>When the house was hidden from them by the trees, he stopped. He sat on a log and waved Belford to another. Then he lit his pipe and waited. To his surprise, the little servant, after clearing his throat, began at once. Much of his nervousness seemed to drop from him, though he still looked like a man in fear.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm rather glad this has happened, sir,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúbecause I was going to come to you anyway.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou were, were you?‚Äù thought Anthony. ‚ÄúNow why?‚Äù But he went on smoking.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI couldn‚Äôt of stood it much longer, sir, reely I couldn‚Äôt! And ever since you stopped that great brute of a sergeant from popping it across me, sir, I‚Äôve been tryin‚Äô to make up me mind to tell you.‚Äù He paused as if expecting an answer; but getting none, plunged on. ‚ÄúI wasn‚Äôt upstairs <em>all</em> the time that night, like I said I was at the inquest!‚Äù Again he paused.</p>
				<p>Anthony went on smoking. Here, if he wanted the story quickly, silence was best.</p>
				<p>Belford swallowed hard. His face, as he went on speaking, turned from muddy gray to dead white.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI come downstairs, sir, after I‚Äôd finished in the master‚Äôs room. And when I got to the ‚Äôall I heard old Poole starting on one of them sneezin‚Äô fits. And‚ÅÝ‚Äîand, sir, I went into the study and I saw the master lyin‚Äô there on the rug‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust like they found ‚Äôim! And‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I shut that door behind me quick‚ÅÝ‚Äîold Pooley was still coughin‚Äô and chokin‚Äô his head off‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I nipped back up the stairs, sir. It‚Äôs God‚Äôs truth, sir! It is‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>This time the pause was so long that Anthony knew speech necessary.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAre you trying to explain,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúthat though you did go into the study that night you didn‚Äôt have anything to do with the murder?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes, sir, yes.‚Äù The man‚Äôs eagerness was pathetic. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs just it, sir! I didn‚Äôt have nothink to do with it, sir, <em>nothink</em>! So ‚Äôelp me God!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhat did you go into the room for?‚Äù Anthony shot out the question. ‚ÄúMust‚Äôve been for something you didn‚Äôt want found out or Poole‚Äôs hay-fever wouldn‚Äôt have been so important to you?‚Äù The logic, he knew, was faulty. But the thrust told.</p>
				<p>Belford hung his head. ‚ÄúYes, sir, it was what you say. I thought‚ÅÝ‚Äîone of the girls told me‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe master was in the billiard-room. And I knew as ‚Äôe always kept money somewhere in the study. I was goin‚Äô to pin‚ÅÝ‚Äîsteal it if I could. I was desprit, sir. Desprit!‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony was puzzled. ‚ÄúBut if you came out without stealing anything, why didn‚Äôt you rouse the house when you saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoode was dead?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know, sir. Except that it all come as such a shock like‚ÅÝ‚Äîmy sneaking in there while old Poole was sneezin‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äîand then finding‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat, sir. You see, when I nipped out, the old man was still sneezin‚Äô with ‚Äôis ‚Äôead on his knees. And I <em>knew</em> as he hadn‚Äôt spotted me. And I bolted away to think. An‚Äô the more I thought, the more I feels as if I couldn‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Äîhadn‚Äôt better like‚ÅÝ‚Äîtell anybody.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI can see, now, sir, ‚Äôow blasted silly it were‚ÅÝ‚Äîme having done nothink wrong. But there it was, sir, I meant to tell, but as I‚Äôd gone in there to steal and ‚Äôad sneaked in in the way I did‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, it made me feel as if they‚Äôd all jump on me immediate as the murderer. Specially as I never goes into the study in the ordinary way. You <em>do</em> see ‚Äôow it was, don‚Äôt you, sir?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt do,‚Äù Anthony said. ‚ÄúBut I also see that you‚Äôre a fool. A fool for not rousing everyone at once; a fool for not keeping quiet after you‚Äôd decided to say nothing about it.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Belford‚Äôs little eyes opened wide. ‚ÄúBut you‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou were on me, sir! You suspected me like‚ÅÝ‚Äîthought I was the murd‚Äôrer!‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony shook his head. ‚ÄúNot really, Belford. You know, you looked too guilty to be true. I nabbed you just now because I don‚Äôt like eavesdroppers. Also because anything fishy in this house interests me at present.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI may be a fool,‚Äù cried Belford in heavy tones not without humour, ‚Äúbut I feel better now I‚Äôve got it off my chest like. Reely I do, sir! I kept sayin‚Äô to meself as how I wasn‚Äôt guilty of anythink, and yet I ‚Äôad the conscience awful! I‚Äôve bin trying to tell you for twenty-four hours, sir, but when I ‚Äôeard you askin‚Äô Poole if ‚Äôe‚Äôd ‚Äôad a ‚Äôtack of that hay-fever on the night the master was killed, I got frightened again and was goin‚Äô to bolt. Only you copped me.‚Äù He was silent a moment, then burst out: ‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDeacon didn‚Äôt do it, sir. He couldn‚Äôt of! You know that, sir?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony did. But he wanted to turn this tragicomic confession of nothing into evidence of importance, though he had but little hope of success.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhat time,‚Äù he asked with affected carelessness, ‚Äúdid you go into the study?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI was only just in and out like a flash, sir. But when I got back to the stairs, the clock there said five past eleven, sir‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI remember it perfect. I wasn‚Äôt lookin‚Äô for the time reely, only some‚Äôow I saw it and couldn‚Äôt forget it like.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony repressed elation. ‚ÄúThanks,‚Äù he said, and got to his feet.</p>
				<p>Belford jumped up. ‚ÄúAre you‚ÅÝ‚Äîgoing, sir?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony nodded.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut what‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat are you goin‚Äô to‚ÅÝ‚Äîto do about me? About what I told you, sir?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony looked down benignly. ‚ÄúNothing.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Belford‚Äôs mouth fell open. ‚ÄúNothing! <em>Nothing?</em> But‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhat I mean, Belford, is this. I‚Äôll keep you out of trouble. You‚Äôve told me one thing that makes all your confession of nothing worth while. You may, later on, have to give evidence; but that‚Äôs the worst you‚Äôll have to do as far as I‚Äôm concerned. And don‚Äôt worry. And for the Lord‚Äôs sake don‚Äôt walk about as you‚Äôve been doing lately, looking like Charles Peace with a bellyache.‚Äù</p>
				<p>The little man smiled all over his wizened face. Anthony looked at him curiously. Somehow, when talking to him as a man and not a servant, one found something so far from being sly as to be almost lovable.</p>
				<p>Anthony gave the narrow shoulders a reassuring pat and strolled away, making for the house. He had covered perhaps twenty yards when he stopped, turned on his heel, and walked back.</p>
				<p>Belford was seated again on his log. His face was buried in his hands. Anthony stood looking down at him.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs the matter?‚Äù he asked.</p>
				<p>The other dropped his hands with a cry, bounding to his feet.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚ÅÝ‚Äîbeg your pardon, sir. You‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony soothed him. ‚ÄúSteady, man, steady. Take your time. Lots of it.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Belford looked up at him, tried to speak, failed, and hung his head again.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúJust now,‚Äù Anthony said, ‚Äúyou told me something about being desperate. What is it? Money?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Belford nodded. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre right, sir,‚Äù he muttered. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs my wife, sir. Been very ill, she has. And is still. I was goin‚Äô to ask the master to ‚Äôelp me; but when it come to the point, I couldn‚Äôt. That‚Äôs why I was after pinchin‚Äô, sir. I would ‚Äôave asked ‚Äôim, I would reely, sir; but I knew he‚Äôd ask Miss Hoode about it, and that‚Äôd ‚Äôave made it ‚Äôopeless. You see, sir, the missus was in service here before we was married‚ÅÝ‚Äîand, well, sir, she ‚Äôad‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äôad to leave in a hurry. And through me! You understand, sir‚ÅÝ‚Äîour nipper‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù He broke off, looking up appealingly. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre very fond of each other, sir,‚Äù he finished. ‚ÄúAnd it‚Äôs ‚Äôard to see ‚Äôer so ill like!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHow much d‚Äôyou want?‚Äù Anthony felt for his notecase. ‚ÄúHere, you‚Äôd better have twenty now. And I‚Äôll fix you up properly tomorrow. Now, for God‚Äôs sake, man, pull yourself together!‚Äù he added sharply.</p>
				<p>For Belford‚Äôs shrivelled, sharp-featured little face was working in a way which was not good to see. Gratitude is sometimes more terrible to watch than baser emotions.</p>
				<p>Anthony thrust the notes into one limp hand and beat hurried retreat.</p>
				<p>Belford stood where he was left. His lips moved soundlessly. The banknotes in his hand crackled as the stubby fingers clenched upon them. Presently he raised his head and looked with blurred vision along the path through the trees.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúGawd!‚Äù he said, the refinement of the servants‚Äô hall now completely gone. ‚ÄúGawd! What a bloke! What a <em>bloody</em> good bloke!‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony took the terrace steps three at a time. He was elated. The elation was short-lived; before he had reached the house, despair had taken its place. After all, this playing at detectives was foolery. Why, such a day as this, with its hot, clean peace, its drowsiness, its little scented breeze‚ÅÝ‚Äîwas it not a day for a lover to lie at the feet of his mistress? Was it not a day for hot, sun-warmed kisses?</p>
				<p>He shook himself, laughing bitterly. ‚ÄúAffectioned ass!‚Äù he said to himself.</p>
				<p>Sir Arthur came out of the house. ‚ÄúLovely day, Gethryn. Early, aren‚Äôt you?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt is and I am. I am also a detective of the greatest. Do I look it?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Sir Arthur grew eager. ‚ÄúWhat d‚Äôyou mean? Have you got anything? Found out anything important?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Anthony nodded. ‚ÄúYes, twice.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut what, man? What?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOne, the butler suffers from hay-fever. Two, the murder was committed at as near eleven o‚Äôclock as I am to you.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúDamn it all, Gethryn,‚Äù said the elder man, ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt think it‚Äôs quite fair to pull my leg like that. Not about this. I don‚Äôt really!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre right, it isn‚Äôt. I‚Äôm sorry.‚Äù Anthony was contrite. ‚ÄúBut you know, I‚Äôm not as silly as I sound. You must think I‚Äôm telling you things you knew before; but I‚Äôm not really. What I think these things mean, I‚Äôm not going to say just yet. Not to anyone.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI see. That‚Äôs all right, Gethryn. You must forgive me if I seem touchy.‚Äù Sir Arthur smiled forgivingly.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúSeen Deacon lately?‚Äù Anthony asked.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThis morning. In fact, I‚Äôve just come back. He‚Äôs wonderful, that boy!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe is,‚Äù agreed Anthony. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm just going to see him now. Walk to the gate with me, will you? I want you to help me.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMy dear chap, with pleasure!‚Äù He put his arm through Anthony‚Äôs as they walked.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI want to know,‚Äù said Anthony, as they reached the end of the house, ‚Äúwhether anyone in any way connected with the household does any playing about with carpenter‚Äôs tools. Amateurs, professionals, or both.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúFunny you should ask that, Gethryn? I‚Äôve been thinking about that. But it‚Äôs no help. You see, the place is full of ‚Äôem‚ÅÝ‚Äîcarpenters, I mean. There‚Äôs Diggle, the gardener, he‚Äôs really an excellent rough-job man. Then there‚Äôs the chauffeur, he made that shed over there‚ÅÝ‚Äîand a splendid bit of work it is. And John, well, it was his one hobby as it is mine. You know that set of three small tables in the drawing-room?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI did notice them. They puzzled me rather. Couldn‚Äôt place ‚Äôem.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúJohn made those,‚Äù said Sir Arthur, with a touch of pride, ‚Äúnearly twenty years ago. I remember I was very jealous at the time. I couldn‚Äôt ever have done anything so good, you see. I was a bit better than he at the finer sorts of work, though.‚Äù He broke off, seeming to fall into a reverie. After a while he added: ‚ÄúNo, Gethryn, I‚Äôm afraid this line‚Äôs no good to us. That wood-rasp doesn‚Äôt belong to Abbotshall.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre sure?‚Äù Anthony asked.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWell, it isn‚Äôt mine, it didn‚Äôt belong to John, it isn‚Äôt Diggle‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe was questioned by the police, you know‚ÅÝ‚Äîand it certainly isn‚Äôt the chauffeur‚Äôs.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHumph!‚Äù Anthony seemed annoyed.</p>
				<p>They walked on to the gate in silence. Anthony nodded an adieu and set off down the white, dusty road with his long horseman‚Äôs stride.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
