<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIII: Irons in the Fire</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Irons in the Fire</p>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="chapter-13-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>Up in his little, low-ceilinged, oak-panelled sitting-room in the Bear and Key, Anthony sat the girl in the one armchair. She refused whisky so pleadingly that he ordered tea. When it had come and the bearer departed, he sat on the table and watched her drink.</p>
				<p>“Now,” he said, “suppose you tell me all about it,” and was immediately smitten with very fragrant memories of another occasion when he had used that phrase.</p>
				<p>Dora Masterson said simply: “I was frightened. Oh, so horribly, <em>horribly</em> frightened!”</p>
				<p>Anthony was puzzled. “But why just now? Surely you must have felt like this as soon as you heard?”</p>
				<p>“N-no. Of course it was⁠—terrible! But Lucia told me what you said, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gethryn⁠—and she⁠—she seemed to so absolutely <em>believe</em> that you would make everything all right that I⁠—I tried to believe too.”</p>
				<p>Anthony’s heart gave a leap that startled him.</p>
				<p>The girl went on, struggling for control. “But⁠—but it was when I heard about the end of the inquest⁠—that he was actually in⁠—Oh, it’s too awful! It’s too <em>terrible</em>!” She swayed about in the big chair, hands hiding her face, the slim shoulders twisting as if her pain were bodily.</p>
				<p>Again was Anthony puzzled. Something in the tone told him that here was something he had not heard of. And this tendency to hysteria must be stopped.</p>
				<p>“What d’you mean? Explain!” he said sharply.</p>
				<p>She sat upright at that, her face working. “I mean that⁠—that⁠—if only I hadn’t been a senseless, vicious little fool; if⁠—if only I hadn’t be-behaved like a b-beastly schoolgirl, Archie wouldn’t⁠—wouldn’t be in that awful place! Oh! why was I ever born!” She pressed her hands to her face and doubled up in the chair until her forehead rested on her knees.</p>
				<p>“I’m afraid I don’t understand yet,” said Anthony.</p>
				<p>She raised her head. “Weren’t you at the inquest?” she asked, dabbing at her swollen eyes with the back of a hand like the schoolgirl she had named herself.</p>
				<p>“Not exactly,” said Anthony, and wondered how many more times he would have to answer this question.</p>
				<p>“Why, then you⁠—you don’t know that⁠—that Archie s-said he went out for a walk during the time when the⁠—the Thing must have been done. And the <em>beasts</em> d-don’t believe him because nobody at all saw him while he was out!”</p>
				<p>“I still don’t⁠—”</p>
				<p>She broke in on his sentence with a flood of speech, springing to her feet.</p>
				<p>“Oh, you fool, you fool!” she cried. “<em>I</em> ought to have seen him! <em>I</em>, <em>I</em>, <em>I!</em> <em>I</em> was to have met him down there on the bank, this side, by the bridge. We’d arranged a walk! And then because <em>I</em> thought <em>I</em> was someone; because <em>I</em> thought he had been rude to <em>me</em> that afternoon, I must needs think <em>I</em> would punish <em>him</em>! And I didn’t go! I didn’t meet him! I stayed at home! Christ help me, I stayed at home!”</p>
				<p>Anthony was shocked into sympathy. “My <em>dear</em> chap,” he said. “My <em>dear</em> chap!” He went to her and dropped a hand on her shoulder. “You poor child!”</p>
				<p>Wearily, she sank against him. The reddish-golden head fell on his shoulder. But she made no sound. She was past tears.</p>
				<p>For a moment they stood thus, while he patted the slim shoulder. Then she drew herself upright and away from him.</p>
				<p>“You must sit down,” he said.</p>
				<p>She looked up at him. “Please forgive me,” she said. “I didn’t mean to⁠—to make such a fool of myself. And I was very rude.” She sat down.</p>
				<p>Anthony waved aside apology. “What we’ve got to do,” he said, smiling down at her, “is to do something.”</p>
				<p>“Yes, yes, I know. But what, what? Oh, you said I could help, but I believe you only did it out of kindness. But if I could really help⁠—how much less⁠—less filthy I should feel!”</p>
				<p>Anthony conceived a liking for this girl; a liking born not altogether of sympathy. But he wondered, with half-humorous desperation, how he was to provide the cleanser and yet not waste much time.</p>
				<p>“Consoler-in-Chief to the Birds of the Air, I am,” he said to himself; then aloud: “You can help, Miss Masterson, by listening to me think. In this business, I’m like a mad poet without hands or tongue. I mean, I’ve found out more than the other fellows⁠—the police⁠—but it’s all odds and ends and tangles⁠—little things, queer in themselves, that men would tell me might be found anywhere if one only troubled to look for ’em. But I say they’re not; that they fit!”</p>
				<p>The girl was sitting upright now, alert, gazing at him intently. “Think, then,” she whispered.</p>
				<p>“Now for it,” thought Anthony, “and God send it’ll take her in⁠—and quickly.”</p>
				<p>Aloud, he began: “Reconcile for me⁠—put these things into order and make ’em mean something⁠—if you can. Innocent fingerprints on a weapon which performed a murder. An innocent person⁠—not the one of the fingerprints⁠—stealing letters from the corpse to hide the fact that the corpse had a mistress. An attempt to make a clock give an alibi, the attempt being so clumsily carried out that it seems very ill in accord with other indications of the murderer’s ingenuity. Secret drawer in corpse’s desk full of newspaper-cuttings, all of ’em vicious attacks on corpse when alive. Fingerprints⁠—”</p>
				<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gethryn!” the girl interrupted harshly; “you’re making fun of me! No, that’s not fair; you’re just playing with me to make me think I can help. No doubt you mean to be kind⁠—but I <em>hate</em> it!”</p>
				<p>Anthony for once was crestfallen. The truth of the accusation was so complete as to make an answer impossible. He found himself in the indefensible position of one “who means well.” He groped wildly for words, but was saved; for, suddenly, Dora sprang to her feet.</p>
				<p>“Those cuttings!” she cried. “Did you mean⁠—do you <em>really</em> want to know anything about them?”</p>
				<p>Anthony was surprised. “Most certainly I do. I don’t know exactly what I want to know, but that means I want to know everything.”</p>
				<p>“Well, go and see Jim⁠—my brother⁠—now, at once!” She stamped her foot at him in her excitement. “When he was secretary to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hoode he was full of those attacks in the press. I remember we thought he was rather silly about them. He used to say there was something more than mere⁠—what did he call it?⁠—policy behind them, and swore he’d make <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hoode take notice of them. I <em>think</em> it was what they eventually quarreled about, but I’m not sure, because he’d never tell me. He wouldn’t even tell Loo⁠—my sister. But if you want to know anything about those papers, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gethryn, Jimmie’s more likely to be able to tell you than anyone else!”</p>
				<p>Anthony looked at her and said: “The best apology I can make to you is to go up to town now. Your brother ought to be well enough by this time. He’s got to be!” He paused; then added with a smile: “You know you wouldn’t have found me out if I’d been less preoccupied. I’m a bit tired, too.”</p>
				<p>Dora, forgetting herself, looked at him closely. “Why⁠—why, you look almost <em>ill</em>!” she cried, “p’r’aps you⁠—oughtn’t to go tonight.”</p>
				<p>“Oh, I’m going right enough,” Anthony said; “and now. And I’m not ill; that’s only my interesting pallor. You must go home⁠—and don’t worry.”</p>
				<p>She cried: “How can I <em>help</em> worrying? Worrying till I wish I’d never been born! Unless there’s a miracle⁠—”</p>
				<p>“Chesterton once wrote,” Anthony interrupted her, “that ‘the most wonderful thing about miracles is that they sometimes happen.’ And he’s a great and wise man.”</p>
				<p>The girl flashed a tremulous smile at him and passed out of the door.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-13-2" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>At ten minutes past ten the great red Mercedes drew up outside the block of flats where Spencer Hastings lived. Anthony had broken his own record of that afternoon for the Kensington-Marling journey.</p>
				<p>Stiffly, he clambered to the pavement, noted with curiosity that his hands were shaking, and ran up the steps. As he went he wondered would he see Her. He arrived at the door of <abbr>No.</abbr> 15 more out of breath than the climb should have made him.</p>
				<p>Wonderfully, it was She who opened it, and at her smile the shortness of his breath was foolishly increased. For the smile was one, it seemed, of open delight at seeing him.</p>
				<p>Hastings, she told him, was out, being at his office. His housekeeper, too, was out, being on holiday. But wasn’t <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hastings a dear? Wasn’t <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hastings’s betrothed a charming betrothed? The invalid was ever so much better; temperature down; sleeping; in fact, almost all right. And she hadn’t forgotten how everything, everything was due to the sagacity, kindliness, and general wonderfulness of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gethryn!</p>
				<p>They were by this time in the little drawing-room; and as yet Anthony had done nothing save stare with all his eyes. She finished speaking, and he realized that he must say something. But what? He wanted to shout to Heaven that he hadn’t seen her for hours longer than years. He wanted to catch her hands⁠—those long, slim hands⁠—and cover them with kisses. He wanted to tell her that she was most glorious of women and he the vainglorious fool who dared to love her. He wanted⁠—oh, what did he not want?</p>
				<p>He said: “Er⁠—good evening. Hastings out?”</p>
				<p>She opened her eyes at him. “But⁠—but, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gethryn, I’ve just told you that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hastings is at his office!”</p>
				<p>“Of course. Ah, yes,” said Anthony.</p>
				<p>“Did you want to see him?”</p>
				<p>Anthony recovered himself; remembered that he had work to do, and that by attending to it he could save himself from behaving foolishly.</p>
				<p>“No,” he said shortly. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Lemesurier, I must see your brother.” It was, he thinks now, the great fatigue which had accumulated during the past days and the strain of that flying drive which led him to speak with such curtness.</p>
				<p>“To see Jim? Oh, but you can’t,” Lucia said. Her tone was gentle and rather aloof and very firm.</p>
				<p>“Oh, but I must,” Anthony said. His loss of temper is regrettable, and was inexplicable to himself even at the time.</p>
				<p>The dark eyes blazed at him. “You can’t,” she said.</p>
				<p>Anthony said with brutal clearness: “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Lemesurier, I am, as best I know how, trying to clear of the charge of murder a man I believe innocent. I’ve got to a point where a five minutes’ conversation with your brother will help me. Your brother⁠—you have told me yourself⁠—cannot be considered as seriously ill. I must see him.”</p>
				<p>This time it was her eyes that fell. Anthony was angry⁠—with himself. And a man angry with himself is invincible.</p>
				<p>With a grace that burned a picture into his mind she crossed the room, to stand with her back to the door.</p>
				<p>Anthony picked his hat from the table and walked slowly towards her, smiling as he walked. It was not a nice smile. It was a smile which crept up on one side of his face and stopped before it reached his eyes. A black smile. There are men in odd corners of the world who would counsel, out of personal experience, that when one sees that smile one had better get out.</p>
				<p>He came close to her, still smiling. For a moment she faced him; then faltered; then stood to one side and let him pass.</p>
				<p>He closed the door softly behind him and began his search for the sickroom. He found it at once. He entered, closing this door even more softly.</p>
				<p>A shaded lamp arranged to leave the bed in shadow was the only light. In the bed lay a man. Peering at his face, Anthony could trace a certain faint resemblance. He sat on the chair by the bed and waited.</p>
				<p>“What the devil are you?” said a weak voice.</p>
				<p>Clearly, but with rapidity, Anthony explained his presence.</p>
				<p>“I’m sorry,” he said in conclusion, “to disturb a sick man, and I’ll get the business over as quickly as possible. But I’ve got to find out all I can, you see.”</p>
				<p>“Quite, quite.” Masterson’s voice was stronger now. Free of fever, shaven, clean, he was vastly different from Margaret’s bogey.</p>
				<p>“How can I help?” he asked after a silence.</p>
				<p>Anthony told him. Bored at first, Masterson woke to sudden interest at the mention of the newspaper-cuttings.</p>
				<p>“So he <em>did</em> keep ’em!” He lifted himself in the bed to rest on one elbow.</p>
				<p>Anthony pushed the little bundle of slips into the thin hands. Eagerly, the sick man read each.</p>
				<p>“Some of these are new,” he said. “After my time with Hoode, I mean. But these three⁠—and this one⁠—I remember well. Dammit, I ought to! These are what we had that infernal row about.”</p>
				<p>“How?”</p>
				<p>“Well, you see, I’d been watching these three papers for a long time, and I’d come to a definite conclusion that there was one man behind all the attacks. I told Hoode so, and he laughed at the idea! That made me as mad as hell. I’ve always had a foul temper, but since the war, y’know, it’s really uncontrollable. I mean I actually can’t help it.”</p>
				<p>“I know,” Anthony nodded.</p>
				<p>“That’s all. I cursed him for a blind, pigheaded, big-headed fool, and he sacked me. He couldn’t very well do anything else. I still feel very bitter about it; though not quite so much now he’s dead. He was such a brilliant cove in some ways, but so blasted silly in others. Simply wouldn’t listen to what I had to say⁠—and I was sweating to benefit him!”</p>
				<p>“ ‘Zeal, all zeal, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Easy!’ ” said Anthony.</p>
				<p>“Exactly; but zeal’s a damn good thing at times, ’specially in private secretaries, and being turned down like that made me brood. I really couldn’t help it, you know. After I got the sack I brooded to such an extent that I simply went to pieces. Drank too much. Made an idiot of myself. I say, Lucia’s told me all about things, and I want to thank⁠—”</p>
				<p>“You can do that best,” Anthony interrupted, “by keeping on about Hoode and these press-cuttings. I’ve made some conclusions about ’em myself, but you know more.”</p>
				<p>A slight flush rose to the sallow cheek of the man in bed. He turned restlessly.</p>
				<p>“When I come to think of it,” he said nervously, “I don’t <em>know</em> a great deal. Mostly surmise, and from what I’ve heard of you I should say you’re better at that game than I am.”</p>
				<p>Anthony grew grim. “Someone’s been exaggerating. You fire ahead. The sooner you do, the sooner I’ll be able to get away and leave you in peace.”</p>
				<p>Masterson said hesitantly: “All right. When I first saw the things coming out one by one I didn’t think anything about ’em. But after a week or so⁠—it may have been a month⁠—something queer struck me. At first I couldn’t place it. Then after collecting a few of the articles, I tumbled. It seemed to me that one man was behind ’em. More, that one man was writing ’em⁠—and for three papers of widely different politics and apparently belonging to different people!”</p>
				<p>Anthony was pleased. “You support me. I thought the author seemed to be one man, though I’ve not had time to study the things carefully. I went so far as to think⁠—the authorship being the same and the papers so different in views⁠—that one man controlled all three.” He fell silent a moment, then added slowly: “One might consider, you know, whether the controller and the writer⁠—”</p>
				<p>But Masterson interrupted. “Look here,” he said, sitting up in obvious excitement, “how did you spot the unity of authorship business?”</p>
				<p>“Similarity of style, I think.” Anthony was reflective. “I’ve got quite an eye for style. Two or three times the fellow tried to disguise it. By doing that he gave the game away completely.”</p>
				<p>“Oh, but there was more than that!” cried the other, fumbling with shaking hands at the sheaf of cuttings. “Wait till I find⁠—ah! Now, look at this. ‘The Minister of Imperial Finance, in his efforts for advancement of self, would do well to remember that hackneyed line of Pope: “A little learning is a dangerous thing.” ’ Did you see that?”</p>
				<p>Anthony opened his eyes. “I did. And thought how refreshing it was to see the quotation given right. They nearly all get it wrong, though you’d think anyone could see that Pope couldn’t have been such a fool as to say a little knowledge was dangerous. Knowledge is always useful; learning isn’t⁠—until you’ve got plenty. But go on: what about it?”</p>
				<p>Masterson was searching feverishly. “Tell you when I’ve found⁠—here we are! Listen. Er-um Finance⁠—policy⁠—rumty-tumty⁠—‘when Greek joins Greek, then comes the tug-of-war!’ There you are again. How many times d’you see that given right?”</p>
				<p>“Never,” said Anthony. “They all say ‘meets.’ ”</p>
				<p>“There you are, then. It all goes to prove what you felt and I’m certain about.” He tapped the bundle of cuttings with a lean finger. “All these were written by the same man; there’s not a doubt in my mind. Style⁠—similarity in style, I mean⁠—isn’t proof; but this orgy of correctitude <em>plus</em> that similarity is. At least it’s good enough for me. There are plenty more instances if you want them. There’s one I remember well⁠—a leader in <i>Vox Populi</i>. It was a more vicious attack on Hoode even than the others, and it was so damn well done that it was almost convincing. It said, apropos of him: ‘<i xml:lang="la">facilis descensus averno</i>.’ What about that?”</p>
				<p>Anthony sat up. “ ‘<i xml:lang="la">Averno</i>’ is very rare,” he said slowly. “But it’s a better reading. I saw it. I wondered. I wondered a lot.”</p>
				<p>There was a silence. The two looked at each other.</p>
				<p>“Masterson,” Anthony said at last, “you’re very useful, you know. Most useful. Wish you weren’t sick-abed. Now here’s another point. We’ve fixed the author of these articles as one man; but what about the motive force behind the author. I’m inclining to the view that as these papers differ so widely in everything else they are controlled by someone whose only interest in them was to do Hoode a bad turn. Agree?”</p>
				<p>Masterson nodded emphatically.</p>
				<p>“Right.” Anthony leaned forward, speaking softly. “But did this motive force hire someone to write for it, or was its distaste for the unfortunate Robin Hoode so great that it wrote itself, being unwilling to forgo the pleasure of, so to speak, giving birth to a new litter of scorpions three times a month or more? Briefly, are you with me in thinking that author and motive force are probably one and the same?”</p>
				<p>“By God, I am!” Masterson said.</p>
				<p>Anthony smiled. “Well, thank God I’ve found another lunatic! That’s what we are, you know. Think of our theory! It is that someone had such a hatred of Hoode that the secret purchase of three newspapers was needed to assuage it. That’s what we’ve said; we’re thinking more. But we’re frightened to say what it is because it’ll sound so silly.”</p>
				<p>“I know. I know.” Masterson’s tone was almost fearful. “I say, we <em>can’t</em> be right! It isn’t sense! Now I come to think of it there are dozens of other theories that’d fit. There might be more than one person. The whole thing might be political. The⁠—”</p>
				<p>Anthony raised a hand for silence. “Fear not. Of course you can fit other theories. One always can; that’s the devil of this bloodhound business. The only way to work is to pick a likely-looking path and go down it. I’ve chosen one to get on with. As you say, it’s not sense; but then nothing else is. It’s sad and bad and very mad and very far from sweet. But there it is. So we’ll all go mad. I’m starting now.” He got to his feet.</p>
				<p>“Here, wait a minute!” Masterson cried. “Don’t go. I⁠—I might be able to help you.”</p>
				<p>“My dear fellow, you have already⁠—immeasurably! For one thing you’ve crystallised my determination to go mad and stay mad⁠—”</p>
				<p>“Oh, I know all about that!” Masterson exhibited some irritation. “But I mean really help. I was just going to tell you. When I was with Hoode, before I told him about this business, I went to one of those filthy private inquiry agents. I was so absolutely certain, you see. I told this chap to find out, if he could, who the enemy was. Or rather I told him to find out who really owned the three newspapers. He thought I was mad, said he could do it in a day⁠—but he didn’t! I think he imagined he’d only got to look it up or get someone from Fleet Street to tell him. Of course, that didn’t work, he only gave me the three figureheads that’re shown to the trusting world. But when I laughed at him, and explained a little, I think he got his back up and really went for the job.”</p>
				<p>“D’you mean to say⁠—” began Anthony.</p>
				<p>“No, I don’t! Before I heard any more I had the row with Hoode⁠—I didn’t tell <em>him</em> about the ’tec, of course; I was too angry⁠—and dropped the whole business and paid this chap off. He was very fed up⁠—kept trying to see me, and writing. Of course⁠—well in the state I was in, I refused to see him and chucked his letters into the fire. But he was so very eager! He <em>might</em> know something, I think!”</p>
				<p>Anthony was elated. “He might indeed. Masterson, you’re a treasure! What’s the name?”</p>
				<p>“Pellet, he calls himself. Office is at 4, Grogan’s Court, off Fleet Street, just past Chancery Lane.”</p>
				<p>“Excellent! Now I’m going.” Anthony held out his hand. “And thank you. Hope I’ve done you no harm.”</p>
				<p>“Not a bit. Feel better already. Let me know how you get on. Going to sleep now,” said the invalid, and did, before Anthony had reached the door.</p>
				<p>In the passage, Anthony hesitated. Should he go straight from the flat or should he tell Her first that he was going? Then, as he reached it, the door of the drawing-room opened.</p>
				<p>The passage was dimly lit, and at first she did not see him. He moved towards her. There came a startled “Oh!” of surprise; then she straightened herself into a rigidity eloquent of protest. Anthony groaned. He had hoped the ruffled feathers smooth again.</p>
				<p>“Your brother,” he said, “is asleep. By the look of him he’s in for a good twelve hours. He’s none the worse and I’m even more full of information than I’d hoped to be. So everything in the garden is lovely!”</p>
				<p>But Lucia was angry. Lucia was not to be put off by this light-and-airyness. When she spoke her voice was cold; cold and cruel. She meant to hurt⁠—and succeeded.</p>
				<p>“Is there nothing,” she said, “that my brother and I can help you with further? Nothing that we can be <em>made</em> to do? A woman and a sick man! Oh, surely there is?”</p>
				<p>For the second time that night Anthony lost his temper. One must, to a certain extent, forgive him. He was worried and tired and harassed and very much in love. He laughed, and peered down at her in the half-light. Lucia caught her breath. Like many lesser women she had, being angry, said far more than she had meant. And now she was sorry, and⁠—well, yes, frightened.</p>
				<p>“Before I go,” Anthony said, “I will tell you a story. Once on a time there was a woman who had a big brother and a little sister. One night, she heard that her big brother, who was living in the great city, was sick with a chill. Good friends had taken him to their house and were caring for him. But the woman posted to the great city to make sure that her brother was indeed being well tended.</p>
				<p>“But,” he went on, “she left behind her in the country her little sister. Now, this maid was in great sorrow, for her lover had been seized by all the king’s horses and all the king’s men and thrust into a dungeon. Here he was to stay until the king’s judges had decided whether or no to hang him for a misdeed of which he had not been guilty. So, left alone, the little sister grew more and more lonely and frightened, and became in danger of falling ill, She had nobody to comfort her, you see. But that, of course, did not matter, because big brother had his mustard plaster in the right place at last.”</p>
				<p>He walked to the front-door; opened it. “Good night,” he said, and shut it gently behind him.</p>
				<p>Hands gleaming pale against her throat, Lucia leant against the wall of the passage.</p>
				<p>Down in the street, Anthony jumped into his car; then for a moment sat staring before him. Like many lesser men, he had, being angry, said more than he had meant. And now he was frightened.</p>
				<p>They had, it must be admitted, behaved like silly children. Very silly children. But then the best people so often do.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
