<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VII: The Prejudiced Detective</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Prejudiced Detective</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Thornton, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝLemesurier‚Äôs parlourmaid, was enjoying her evening out. To <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝLemesurier and her sister, drinking their coffee after dinner, came Thornton‚Äôs second-in-command.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPlease, ma‚Äôam,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúthere is a gentleman.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat? Who?‚Äù Lucia pushed back her chair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere is a gentleman, ma‚Äôam. In the drawing-room. He says might he see you. Very important, he said it was. Please, ma‚Äôam, he wouldn‚Äôt give no name.‚Äù The girl twisted her apron-strings nervously.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShall I go, dear?‚Äù Dora asked placidly. Inwardly she was frightened. She had thought her sister recovered from her attack of the afternoon, but here she was getting ill again. White-faced! Nervy! Not at all like the usual Lucia.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝLemesurier rose to her feet. ‚ÄúNo, no. I‚Äôd better see him. Elsie, what name‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, you said he wouldn‚Äôt give one. All right. The drawing-room, you said?‚Äù She walked slowly from the room.</p>
			<p>Outside the drawing-room door she paused, fought for composure, gained it, and entered. Anthony came forward to meet her.</p>
			<p>Her hand went to her naked throat. ‚ÄúYou!‚Äù she whispered.</p>
			<p>Anthony bowed. ‚ÄúYou are right, madam.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat do you want? What have you come here for, again?‚Äù So low was her voice that he could barely catch the words.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou know,‚Äù said Anthony, ‚Äúwe‚Äôre growing melodramatic. Please sit down.‚Äù He placed a chair.</p>
			<p>Mechanically she sank into it, one hand still at the white throat. The great eyes, wide with fear, never left his face.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNow,‚Äù said Anthony, ‚Äúlet us clear the atmosphere. First, please understand that I have no object here except to serve you. I wasn‚Äôt quite clear about that this morning, hence my clumsy methods. The next move‚Äôs up to you. Suppose you tell me all about it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Her eyes fell from his. ‚ÄúAll about what? Really, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>‚ÅÝ‚Äî<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGethryn, do you always behave in this extraordinary way?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood! Quite good!‚Äù Anthony approved. ‚ÄúBut it won‚Äôt do, you know. It won‚Äôt do. I repeat, suppose you tell me all about it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She essayed escape by another way. She looked up into his face, a light almost tender in her eyes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you‚ÅÝ‚Äîdo you‚ÅÝ‚Äîreally mean that about‚ÅÝ‚Äîabout serving? Is it true that you want to help me?‚Äù she asked. And still her voice was soft; but with how different a softness!</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMost certainly.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen I assure you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGethryn, most honestly and sincerely, that you will help me best by‚ÅÝ‚Äîby‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe hovered on the brink of admission‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúby not asking me anything, by not trying any more to‚ÅÝ‚Äîto‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù She broke down. Her voice died away.</p>
			<p>Anthony shook his head. ‚ÄúNo. You‚Äôre wrong, quite wrong. I‚Äôll show you why. Last night John Hoode was murdered. During the night you swam across the river, crept up to the house, and crouched outside the window of the room in which the murder was done. Why did you do all this? Certainly not for amusement or exercise. Then, unless a coincidence occurred greater than any ever invented by a novelist in difficulties, your visit was in some way connected with the murder. Or, at any rate, some of the circumstances of the murder are known to you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo! No!‚Äù Lucia shrank back into her chair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere you are, you see.‚Äù Anthony made a gesture. ‚ÄúI was putting the point of view of the police and public‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat they would say if they knew‚ÅÝ‚Äînot giving my own opinion.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe sleuthhounds of fiction,‚Äù he went on, ‚Äúare divinely impartial. The minions of Scotland Yard are instructed to be. But I, madam, am that <i xml:lang="la">rarissima avis</i>, a prejudiced detective. Ever since this case began I‚Äôve been prejudiced. I‚Äôve been picking up new prejudices at every corner. And the strongest, healthiest, and most unshakable prejudice of them all is the one in favour of you. Now, suppose you tell me all about it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI don‚Äôt understand,‚Äù she murmured, and looked up at him wide-eyed. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre so‚ÅÝ‚Äîso bewildering!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôll go further, then. If I say that even if you killed Hoode and tell me so, I won‚Äôt move in any way except to help you, will‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou‚ÅÝ‚Äîtell‚ÅÝ‚Äîme‚ÅÝ‚Äîall‚ÅÝ‚Äîabout‚ÅÝ‚Äîit?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Those eyes blazed at him. ‚ÄúDo you dare to suggest that I‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, woman, Illogicality should be thy name,‚Äù Anthony groaned. ‚ÄúI was merely endeavouring, madam, to show how safe you‚Äôd be in telling me all that you know. Listen. I‚Äôm in this business privately. I oblige a friend. If I don‚Äôt like my own conclusions, I shall say nothing about them. I seek neither Fame nor Honorarium. I have, thank God, more money than is good for me.‚Äù He was silent for a moment, and then added: ‚ÄúNow, suppose you tell me all about it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She half rose, then sank back into her chair. Her eyes were full on his. For a moment that seemed an hour he lost consciousness of all else. He saw nothing, felt nothing, but those dark twin pools and the little golden lights that danced deep down in the darkness.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI believe you,‚Äù she said at last. ‚ÄúI <em>will</em> tell you‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe laughed a little‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúall about it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Anthony bowed. ‚ÄúMay I sit?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh! Please, please forgive me!‚Äù She sprang to her feet. ‚ÄúYou look <em>so</em> tired‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I‚Äôve kept you standing all this time. And while I‚Äôve been so melodramatic, too. Is there anything you‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOnly your story.‚Äù Anthony had discovered a need to keep a hold upon himself. Contrition had made her, impossibly, yet more beautiful. He pulled up a chair and sat facing her.</p>
			<p>The white hands twisted in her lap. She began: ‚ÄúI‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI hardly know where to begin. It‚Äôs all so‚ÅÝ‚Äîit doesn‚Äôt seem real, only it‚Äôs too dreadful to be anything else‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy did you go to Abbotshall last night? And why, in Heaven‚Äôs name, since you did go there, did you choose to swim?‚Äù Anthony conceived that questions would help.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere wasn‚Äôt time to do anything else,‚Äù she said, seeming to gather confidence. She went on, the words tumbling over each other: ‚ÄúWe‚Äôd been out all day‚ÅÝ‚ÄîDora and I and some friends. I‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhen we got back‚ÅÝ‚ÄîDora and I‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere was only just time to change for dinner. As I came in I saw some letters in the hall, and remembered I‚Äôd not read them in the morning‚ÅÝ‚Äîwe‚Äôd been in such a hurry to start. Then I went and forgot them again till after dinner.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt wasn‚Äôt till after half-past ten that I thought of them. And then, when‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhen I read the one from Jimmy, I‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, God!‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù She covered her face with her hands.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho,‚Äù said Anthony sharply, ‚Äúis Jimmy?‚Äù</p>
			<p>With an effort so great that it hurt him to watch, she recovered. The hands dropped to her lap again. He saw the long fingers twist about each other.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJimmy,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúis my brother. I‚Äôm most awfully fond of him, you know. He <em>is</em> such a darling! Only‚ÅÝ‚Äîonly he‚Äôs not been quite the same since he got back from Germany. He‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe‚Äôs ill‚ÅÝ‚Äîand he‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe‚Äôs been d-drinking‚ÅÝ‚Äîand‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe was a prisoner there for three years! When they got him he was wounded in the head and they never even‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe beasts! The beasts! Oh, Jim, darling‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat letter, madam,‚Äù Anthony was firm.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes‚ÅÝ‚Äîyes, the letter.‚Äù She choked back a sob.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI read it. I read it, and I thought I should go mad! He said he was going‚ÅÝ‚Äîgoing to sh-shoot Hoode‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat night!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYour brother? What had he to do with Hoode?‚Äù Anthony was at once relieved and bewildered. He knew why she had said, ‚ÄòWho shot him?‚Äô But why should Brother want to shoot?</p>
			<p>She seemed not to have heard his question. ‚ÄúI tried hard‚ÅÝ‚Äîever so hard‚ÅÝ‚Äîto persuade myself that the letter was all nonsense, that it was a practical joke, or that Jimmy was ill or‚ÅÝ‚Äîor anything. But I couldn‚Äôt. He‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe was so precise. The train he was coming by‚ÅÝ‚Äîand everything. The‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat had your brother to do with Hoode?‚Äù Anthony interrupted. He felt that unless she were kept severely to the point her self-control would vanish altogether.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe was his secretary until Archie took his place‚ÅÝ‚Äîabout six months ago. I‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI never knew why Jimmy left, he wouldn‚Äôt tell me. He wouldn‚Äôt tell me, I say!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Anthony shifted uneasily in his chair. There had been a note of hysteria in those last words.</p>
			<p>Suddenly she was on her feet. ‚ÄúHe did it! He did it!‚Äù she wailed, her hands flung above her head. ‚ÄúOh, Christ! he‚Äôll be‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, Jimmy, Jimmy!‚Äù And then she began to laugh.</p>
			<p>Anthony jumped at her, took her by the shoulders, and shook. The ivory-white flesh seemed at once to chill and burn his clutching fingers. With every movement of his arms her head lolled helplessly. Knowing himself right, he yet detested himself.</p>
			<p>The dreadful laughter changed to sobbing; the sobbing to silence.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm s-sorry, p-please,‚Äù she said.</p>
			<p>Anthony‚Äôs hands fell to his sides. ‚ÄúI,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúam a brute. Please sit down again.‚Äù</p>
			<p>They sat. A silence fell.</p>
			<p>At last he broke it. ‚ÄúThen you were so impressed by the sincerity of your brother‚Äôs letter that you determined you must try to stop him. Is that right?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She nodded.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut why, in God‚Äôs name, didn‚Äôt you walk or run, or do anything rather than swim?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere wasn‚Äôt time. You see, it‚ÅÝ‚Äîit was so late‚ÅÝ‚Äîas I explained‚ÅÝ‚Äîbefore I read the‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe l-letter that I knew th-that Jimmy was probably almost there. There wasn‚Äôt time to‚ÅÝ‚Äîto‚ÅÝ‚Äîto‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI see. Judging that you‚Äôd save at least ten minutes by crossing the river here, you pretended you were going to bed, probably removed the more clinging of your garments‚ÅÝ‚Äîif you didn‚Äôt put on a bathing-dress‚ÅÝ‚Äîput on a pair of bathing-sandals to make running easy without hindering swimming, slipped out of the house quietly and beat all previous records to Abbotshall by at least ten minutes. That right?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes.‚Äù Besides other emotions there was wonder in her tones.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood. Now, when you were kneeling outside the window of Hoode‚Äôs study, what did you see? You‚Äôll understand that if I am to be allowed to help you I must find out all I can and as quickly as I can.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Their lids veiled the great eyes. A convulsive movement of the white throat told of the strain she was under. When she spoke it was without feeling, without emphasis, like a dull child repeating a lesson memorised but not understood.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI saw a man lying face-downwards by the fireplace. There was blood on his head. It was a bald head. I saw a clock half-fallen over; and chairs too. And I came away. I ran to the river.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you know,‚Äù Anthony asked slowly, ‚Äúwhat time it was when you got back here?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù said the lifeless ghost of the voice that had thrilled him.</p>
			<p>He was disappointed, and fell silent. Nothing new here, except, of course, the brother. And of this business of Brother James he did not yet know what to think.</p>
			<p>With this silence, Lucia‚Äôs cloak of impassivity left her. ‚ÄúWhat shall we do?‚Äù she whispered. ‚ÄúWhat shall we do? They‚Äôll find out that Jimmy‚ÅÝ‚Äîthey‚Äôll find out. I <em>know</em> they will, I‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe police know nothing about your brother, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝLemesurier.‚Äù Anthony‚Äôs tone was soothing. ‚ÄúAnd if they did, they wouldn‚Äôt worry their heads about him. You see, they‚Äôve found a man they‚Äôre sure is the murderer. There‚Äôs quite a good <i xml:lang="la">prima facie</i> case against him, too.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Relief flooded her face with colour. For a moment she lay relaxed in her chair; then suddenly sat bolt upright again, her hands clutching at its arms.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut if they‚Äôre accusing someone else, they‚ÅÝ‚Äîwe must tell them about‚ÅÝ‚Äîabout‚ÅÝ‚ÄîJimmy.‚Äù Her face was white, dead white, again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou go too fast, you know,‚Äù said Anthony.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt you think we‚Äôd better find out a few people who didn‚Äôt do it before we unburden ourselves to the Law?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She laid eager hands on his arm. ‚ÄúYou mean‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou think Jim didn‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Äîdidn‚Äôt do it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Anthony nodded. ‚ÄúMore prejudice, you see. And I know the man the bobbies have got hold of had nothing to do with it either. Again prejudice. Bias, lady, bias! There‚Äôs nothing like it to clear the head, nothing! Now, have you a telephone?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, yes,‚Äù she said eagerly. Hope, trust and other emotions showed in the velvet darkness of her eyes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd your brother‚Äôs address?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Unhesitatingly she gave it; then added: ‚ÄúThe phone‚Äôs in here.‚Äù She pointed to a writing-table at the far end of the room.</p>
			<p>As he turned to go to it, she clutched again at his arm. ‚ÄúDamn it!‚Äù thought Anthony. ‚ÄúI <em>wish</em> she wouldn‚Äôt keep doing that. So disturbing!‚Äù But he smiled down at her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIsn‚Äôt it dangerous to use the telephone?‚Äù she whispered. ‚ÄúIsn‚Äôt it? The girls at the exchange‚ÅÝ‚Äîif you use his name‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCredit me with guile,‚Äù smiled Anthony.</p>
			<p>He crossed the room, sat by the table and pulled the instrument towards him. She stood beside him, her fingers gripping the back of his chair. He lifted the receiver and asked for a city number.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs it a trunk-call?‚Äù he added. ‚ÄúNo? Good!‚Äù</p>
			<p>To Lucia, her heart in her mouth, it seemed hours before he spoke again. Then‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHallo. That <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">The Owl</i> office?‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIt is? Well, put me on to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHastings, please. At once. You can‚Äôt? My child, if I‚Äôm not put through <em>at once</em> you‚Äôll go tomorrow! Understand?‚Äù A pause. To Lucia it seemed that the heavy thudding of her heart must be filling the room with sound. She pressed a hand to her breast.</p>
			<p>Then Anthony‚Äôs voice again. ‚ÄúAh, that you, Spencer? Oh, it‚Äôs the unerring Miss Warren, is it? Yes, Gethryn speaking. He is, is he? When‚Äôll he be back? Or won‚Äôt he? Oh, you‚Äôre all always there until after midnight, are you? Well, when he comes in, will you please tell him‚ÅÝ‚Äîthis is important‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat I‚Äôve run across someone who knows where our old friend Masterson, Jimmy Masterson, is. Hastings will want to see him at once, I know. He and I have been trying to find Masterson for years. And say that I want to find out what Jimmy was doing last night. Tell Hastings to ask him or find out somehow where he was. It‚Äôs a great joke.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe address is 84, Forest Road, <abbr epub:type="z3998:place">N.W.</abbr> 5. Now, Miss Warren, if you wouldn‚Äôt mind repeating the message?‚Äù A pause. Then: ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs exactly right, Miss Warren, thanks. You never make mistakes, do you? Don‚Äôt forget to tell Hastings he simply must go there this evening, whether the work‚Äôll allow him or not. And he‚Äôs got to ring me up here‚ÅÝ‚ÄîGreyne 23‚ÅÝ‚Äîand tell me how he got on. And, by the way, ask him from me if he remembers his Cicero, and tell him I said: <i xml:lang="la">Haec res maxim est: statim pare.</i> Got it? I won‚Äôt insult you by offering to spell it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThanks so much, Miss Warren. Good night.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He replaced the receiver and rose from his chair. He turned to find the face of his hostess within an inch of his own. The colour had fled again from her cheeks; the eyes again held fear in them. It seemed as if this passing-on of her brother‚Äôs name had revived her terror.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPreserve absolute calm,‚Äù said Anthony softly. ‚ÄúThe cry of the moment is ‚Äòdinna fash.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù Gently, he forced her into a chair.</p>
			<p>The eyes were piteous now. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI don‚Äôt understand <em>anything</em>!‚Äù she gasped. ‚ÄúWhat was that message? What will it do? What am I to‚ÅÝ‚Äîto do? Oh, don‚Äôt go! Please don‚Äôt go!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe message,‚Äù Anthony said, ‚Äúwas to a great friend whose discretion is second only to mine own. Don‚Äôt you think it was a nice message? Nothing there any long ears at the exchange could make use of, was there? All so nice and above board, I thought. And I liked the very canine Latin labelled libellously ‚ÄòCicero.‚Äô That was to make sure he understood that the affair was urgent. The need for discretion he‚Äôll gather from the way the message was wrapped up. Oh, I‚Äôm undoubtedly a one, I am!</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd as for going, I‚Äôm not until I‚Äôve had an answer from Hastings. That ought to be about midnight. At least, I won‚Äôt go unless you ask me to.‚Äù He sat down, heavily, upon a sofa.</p>
			<p>Something‚ÅÝ‚Äîhis calmness, perhaps‚ÅÝ‚Äîsucceeded. He saw the fear leave the face, that face of his dreams. For a moment, he closed his eyes. He was thirsty for sleep, yet desired wakefulness. She glanced at him, timidly almost, and saw the deep lines of fatigue in the thin face, the shadows under the eyes.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGethryn,‚Äù she said softly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes?‚Äù Anthony‚Äôs eyes opened.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou look <em>so</em> tired! I feel responsible. I‚Äôve been so very difficult, haven‚Äôt I? But I‚Äôm not going to be silly any more. And‚ÅÝ‚Äîand isn‚Äôt there anything I can do? You <em>are</em> tired, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Anthony smiled and shook his head.</p>
			<p>Suddenly: ‚ÄúFool that I am!‚Äù she exclaimed; and was gone from the room.</p>
			<p>Anthony blinked wonderingly. He found consecutive thought difficult. This sudden recurrence of fatigue was a nuisance. ‚ÄúHaven‚Äôt seen her laugh yet,‚Äù he murmured. ‚ÄúMust make her laugh. Want to hear. Now, what in hell do we do if Brother James turns out to be the dastardly assassin after all? But I don‚Äôt believe he is. It wouldn‚Äôt fit. No, not at all!‚Äù</p>
			<p>His eyes closed. With an effort, he opened them. To hold sleep at bay he picked up a book that lay beside him on the couch. He found it to be a collection of essays, seemingly written in pleasant and even scholarly fashion. He flicked over the leaves. A passage caught his eye. ‚ÄúAnd so it is with the romantic. He is as a woman enslaved by drugs. From that first little sniff grows the craving, from the craving the necessity, from the necessity‚ÅÝ‚Äî<i xml:lang="la">facilis descensus Averno</i>.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>The quotation set his mind working lazily. So unusual to find that dative case; they nearly all used the almost-as-correct but less pleasant ‚Äú<i xml:lang="la">Averni</i>.‚Äù But he seemed to have seen ‚Äú<i xml:lang="la">Averno</i>‚Äù somewhere else, quite recently, too. Funny coincidence.</p>
			<p>The book slipped from his hand to the floor. In a soft wave, sleep came over him again. His eyes closed.</p>
			<p>He opened them to hear the door of the room closed softly. From behind him came a pleasant sound. He sat upright, turning to investigate.</p>
			<p>Beside a small, tray-laden table stood his hostess. She was pouring whisky from decanter to tumbler with a grave preoccupation which lent an added charm to her beauty. Anthony, barely awake, exclaimed aloud.</p>
			<p>She turned in a flash. ‚ÄúYou were asleep,‚Äù she said, and blushed under the stare of the green eyes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm so psychic, you know,‚Äù sighed Anthony. ‚ÄúI always know when spirits are about.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She laughed; and the sound gave him more pleasure even that he had anticipated. Like her voice, it was low and soft and golden.</p>
			<p>She lifted the decanter again. ‚ÄúSay when,‚Äù she said, and when he had said it: ‚ÄúSoda?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPlease‚ÅÝ‚Äîa little.‚Äù He took the glass from her hand and tasted. ‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝLemesurier, I have spent my day in ever-increasing admiration of you. But now you surpass yourself. This whisky‚ÅÝ‚Äîprewar, I think?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes.‚Äù She nodded absently, then burst out: ‚ÄúTell me, why are you doing all this for me‚ÅÝ‚Äîtaking all this trouble? Tell me!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Tonight Anthony‚Äôs mind was running in a Latin groove. ‚Äú<i xml:lang="la">Veni, vidi, vicisti!</i>‚Äù he said, and drained his glass.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
